---
layout: post
title: Article 2
---

### 1. Source-available VS Open Source
Source-available licensing refers to a software licensing model in which source code is made available to users. However, it differs from open-source licensing in that accompanying licensing terms may not meet all the criteria of open source licenses, such as those defined by the Open Source Initiative (OSI).

A source-available license grants users access to source code, allowing them to view, modify, and sometimes distribute the code. However, there may be restrictions or limitations imposed. These restrictions most often include limitations on commercial use, restrictions on redistributing modified versions, or requirements to share modifications with the original developer without necessarily making them public.

So, the key distinction between open source and source-available is the degree of freedom granted regarding the usage, modification, and distribution of source code. Open source licenses generally adhere to a set of principles ensuring a high degree of freedom, wherea s source-available licenses aim to restrict commercial activities while still allowing users access to source.

**OpenRAIL**
The software can’t be used for harmful or unethical purposes. It violates 'No Discrimination Against Fields of Endeavor'.

**Business Source License (BSL)**
You can’t use the software for commercial purposes until a certain time has passed. It also violates 'No Discrimination Against Fields of Endeavor'.

<hr>

### 2. Artificial Intelligence software
The OpenRAIL license aims to strike a balance between openness and responsibility in the use of AI models. It allows royalty-free access, downstream use, redistribution, and the sharing of derivatives. This promotes open collaboration and innovation around AI artifacts. <br>
And also, includes use-based restrictions on how the licensed AI artifact can be used. These restrictions are designed to prevent misuse, such as the application of the model in harmful or unethical ways. For example, it prohibits use in areas that may violate human rights or be discriminatory.

While OpenRAIL promotes openness in terms of access and reuse, it includes restrictions on use, which conflict with the Open Source Definition Specifically, it may violate 'No discrimination against fields of endeavor'.

Therefore, the OpenRAIL license would likely not be considered to be "open source".





